We maintain kindness in practice by using sociocratic governance. There is no person in charge. There is no positional authority. No one has the power or ability to choose what another gets. The sociocracy replaces either hierarchy or democracy as the way to make decisions. Decisions are made on the basis of Consent, not power or Consensus.
We also use funds to direct the company. People get to make charitable contributions, choosing where to invest in making things better for people.
We also functionally pay everyone equally. Everyone gets $10k scarcity dollars per month to spend, with no ability to save any of it. You may spend it or not, as you see fit. There is no ability to buy goods; you simply are borrowing them (or renting them). Consumables are purchased. Scarcity dollars can be used to purchase any goods on the regular market (the company will pay USD), or purchase abundant goods at the abundant price (the company will debit your remaining monthly scarcity dollars - you are paying for just the scarcity still involved in that good or service).
We start with the high-leverage core engine. This produces a significant profit and provides the core needs of the people involved. Everyone gets abundant food, electricity, and core manufactured goods. And we start expanding from there.
We also require that each person spend a minimum part of their stipend in each of several categories, and can then choose where and how to spend the rest. The categories are:
* On themselves. Whatever they want for themselves. Life joys, not necessities.
* Life basics. We strive to make this abundant as quickly as possible, but we track it and make sure everyone can / does spend on it.
* Expanding abundance to more people - choosing people who are not yet contributing to abundance, and sponsoring them to participate in abundance anyway. Gives an onramp for categories of people to start to participate. Each person can choose how much to spend on this and to which groups - this is one of the ways that people vote for how Abundance grows.
* Extending abundance to different markets - choosing new capabilities to make initial efforts in moving down the abundance model. These dollars are used to pay the scarcity cost, to acquire existing businesses, and for other purposes needed to transition a good down the model. Each person is choosing which goods and services they want to become abundant - where they want to invest in lowering the price and making things closer to free.
