Let's create a sociocracy that competes as a vertical provider. It offers 2-teir pricing:
* Scarcity Market Price: the current market price, offered to anyone.
* Abundance Price: the price offered to those who contribute to abundance. Based on the true cost of goods, without profit.
People contribute to abundance (buy into the club) not through cash (like Costco), but through their work. They fill the human roles needed, build the sub-companies, create the supply chains, create the automation. In so doing, they increase the scope over with the abundance movement operates. This decreases the real cost of goods, which decreases the Abundance Price and increases profits (extracted from the Scarcity Market). Although this company uses vertical organization to dramatically reduce costs, it does not form a vertical monopoly, simply because it does not drop the scarcity market price. It does not seek to out-compete scarcity-focused competitors on price. It simply seeks to provide an equivalent or better product to anyone, and to build an internal platform that can leverage its abundance to make the next thing.
The Abundance Movement's unfair competitive edge is kindness. It doesn't seek to extract a profit from one large class of people (the workers) in order to create richness for a smaller class (the owners). Rather, it seeks to make everything abundant, to the largest number of people possible. It drives each good or service through the model, from scarce through free, for all those within the movement. And it invites people to join the movement by bringing in their businesses, their know-how, their labor, or whatever else. Above all, the movement makes it easy and safe for someone to bet on abundance. They may shift from focusing on richness and attempting to stave off scarcity and poorness, towards focusing on wealth creation, knowing that they will be part of the rising tide.