There are only 4 raw constraints to an economy: human labor, human thinking, energy, and raw materials. We have now pushed each of them into abundance in at least one way, and these reinforce each other in a cycle.
* Energy: solar power is now cheaper than fossil fuels. It doesn't require a central provider, so each energy consumer can now produce their own electricity at lower cost than they could buy it from the American grid. (assuming removal of regulatory frictions)
* Human labor (Manufacturing): robotics replaced human labor a while ago. Human labor is still useful for figuring out how to make the first factory for a purpose, but that can then be automated.
	* This specifically includes manufacturing solar power systems, drones/robots, and computer electronics.
* Human labor (Agriculture): Chinese drone efforts have fully automated farms. Even before that, Dutch greenhouses had reduced agriculture to the point that it could be done with little land and few staff, making it abundant.
* Human thought: AI is here. It takes energy and computer electronics, but then it can think fairly well. There is still lots to do in terms of helping it master new systems of thought and figuring out how to ground it in current reality / desire + manage its limited context window and forgetfulness, but it covers our needs today.
	* More specifically, current levels suffice for 100% automated drones and robots for automating the above areas of human labor.
	* They also suffice for inventing new robots for a purpose. Not perfectly efficiently, but efficient enough given abundance in Energy and Labor.
* Raw materials: Drone-based mining is not far off. Also, extracting materials from landfills is practical with sufficient cheap energy - the Danes have been doing it for years in Copenhagen, with their trash sorting towers.
* Local energy production allows us to co-locate manufacturing. Abundance elimination of corporate boundaries and profit-taking allows us to optimize over larger spans of the supply chain. All of this shortens and simplifies supply chains, increasing the amount and variety of goods we can manufacture.
Given this core, core costs will drop and the gains will go to whomever owns the companies involved. Companies no longer need to have employees to do most of their mental toil, any of their physical toil, and energy and raw materials are cheap. They are now abundant on all real costs.
The only thing that is not abundant is company ownership. If we leave this unaddressed, then capitalism will remain as it is, with a small portion of the population owning the companies. This will focus all gains on those few owners, leaving everyone else out of it. The vast majority will face starvation simply because there is no way for them to meaningfully contribute to the economy in the scale that it demands. And the few owners will have untold richness. This way leads to rebellion and outright war.